The  atom 
     The  ancient  Greeks  coined  the  term  atomos, meaning  the  smallest  possible  separation  of matter.  In  ancient  times,  both  the  Greeks  and  Indians  had  philosophised  about  the  existence  of the  atom  but,  as  mentioned  in  unit  6,  it  was  first hypothesised  scientifically  by  the  British  chemist  John  Dalton  (1766-1844)  in  the  early years  of  the 19 th   century,  when  he  suggested  it  was  the smallest  particle  that  could  exist.  Since  then, smaller  subatomic  particles  have been  discovered and  the  part  they  play as  the  basic  building blocks  of the  universe  is  clear. We  now know  that atoms  are  made  up of differing  numbers  of electrons,  neutrons  and protons,  and  these  too are  made  up of even  smaller  particles. 
     Dalton's  theory  about  atoms  was  not  immediately accepted  by  chemists,  though  one  reason  for  this was  Dalton's  well-known  carelessness  in experimental  procedures.  However,  we know  now that  Dalton  was correct  in  almost  everything  he said  in  his  theory  of the  atom.  He described  an atom,  even  though  he  had never  seen  one,  as a particle  that  cannot  change  its  nature.  It  could, he  observed,  combine  with  the  atoms  of  other chemical  elements  to  create  a compound.  Almost a century  later  the  first  subatomic  particles  were discovered.  By  the  1930s,  physicists  were  working with  new  ideas  which  allowed  them  to  investigate the  parts  of the  atom  in  great  detail.  In  turn, these  developments  helped  them  to  develop quantum  mechanics  -  the  basis  of both modern chemistry  and  physics. 
Атом
     Древние греки придумали термин atomos, означающий наименьшее возможное разделение материи. В древние времена и греки, и индийцы философствовали о существовании атома, но, как уже упоминалось в блоке 6, он был впервые выдвинут британским ученым-химиком Джоном Дальтоном (1766-1844) в первые годы 19-го века, когда он предположил, что это самая маленькая частица, которая может существовать. С тех пор были открыты более мелкие субатомные частицы, и роль, которую они играют в качестве основных строительных блоков Вселенной, ясна. Теперь мы знаем, что атомы состоят из разного числа электронов, нейтронов и протонов, и они тоже состоят из еще более мелких частиц.
     Теория Дальтона об атомах не была сразу принята химиками, хотя одной из причин этого была известная небрежность Дальтона в экспериментальных процедурах. Однако теперь мы знаем, что Дальтон был прав почти во всем, что он говорил в своей теории атома. Он описал атом, хотя никогда его не видел, как частицу, которая не может изменить свою природу. Он заметил, что она может соединяться с атомами других химических элементов, образуя соединение. Почти столетие спустя были открыты первые субатомные частицы. К 1930-м годам физики работали с новыми идеями, которые позволили им исследовать части атома в мельчайших деталях. В свою очередь, эти разработки помогли им развить квантовую механику - основу как современной химии, так и физики.
